# Node Package Manager

Node Package Manager(NPM), is the program you use to install third party Node modules. It comes with more recent versions of Node so no need to install it. 

###Installing Modules
####Local Modules
The most common usage of npm is to install packages that have been published to the npm registry. An example is the [express](https://www.npmjs.com/package/express) package. To install request, open a terminal/command promt and change directory to the lab6 folder. Enter the following command:
```
npm install express
```
This will install the package to the ``node_modules`` folder in the project folder. All locally installed modules will be installed here. 
To use the package, add another "require" to the server code:
```
require('express')
```
We will be using the Express package later on to help us create web apis.
####Global modules.
You already used NPM in a previous lab to install http-server package as follows ```npm install http-server -g``` to serve up HTML pages. The '-g' indicates that this package will be installed *globally* - i.e. acessible anywhere. Global instalations are typically used  for  command line utilities. 
###package.json
If you're developing a Node program or library for deployment, it's a good practice to include a package.json file. This file is a manifest of the Node project and is located at your project root. It contains various information specific to your project. To create a package.json file, run the following in the *lab6* folder:
```
npm init
```
You'll now be asked a few questions about your node app. Answer as follows:
- name: (node lab 1) 
- version: (1.0.0) ;
- description: simple http server;
- entry point: (greeting.js) simple-server.js;
- keywords: http node
- author: *your name*
- license: (ISC) 

You can leave the others blank.



